LIP0042: Change the type of IDs and add type hinting (#147)
LiskHQ/lips: proposals/lip-0042.md

The Reward module induces specific logic after the application of a block:

> * After applying the block, a certain quantity of the native token of the blockchain is minted and assigned to the block generator. The exact amount assigned to the block generator, i.e., the reward, is calculated depending on the rules of the [random module][research:random-module] and the [BFT module][bft-module].

Author: Fixed.

## Specification

In this section, we specify the protocol logic in the lifecycle of a block injected by the Reward module as well as the functions that can be called from off-chain services. It depends on the token, BFT, and random modules.

### Types

|**Name**   | **Type**  |   **Validation**  |   **Description** |
|-----------|-----------|-------------------|-------------------|
|BlockHeader   | object  |   see [LIP 0055][block-schema-lip]  |   The header of a block. |

### Constants

| **Name**                      | **Type** | **Value**                                 |
|-------------------------------|----------|-------------------------------------------|
| `MODULE_ID_REWARD `           | bytes    |       TBD                                 |

> | `EVENT_TYPE_REWARD`           | bytes    |       0x0001                              |

Author: Changed.

This function is used to retrieve the reward of a block at a given height.

##### Execution

```python

> getBlockReward(blockHeader: BlockHeader) -> uint64:

Reviewer: I think it would still be nice to define the `BlockHeader` type, similar to what we did here: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/pull/143/files#diff-855d735f598bef5639924d04e64a28a025082eec20f835526d33f68c5273625fR59

This module does not define any command.

### Events

#### RewardMinted

> Event is emitted when the reward is minted, it carries information about reward reduction. This event has `typeID = TYPE_ID_REWARD_MINTED`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The event is emitted when the reward is minted. In case of a reward reduction, it provides information about the reason for the reduction. This event has `typeID = TYPE_ID_REWARD_MINTED`.
```

Author: Changed as per suggestion.

  return defaultReward
```

> Here `isValidSeedReveal` is the function exposed by the [random module][research:random-module] and `impliesMaximalPrevotes` is the function exposed by the [BFT module][research:bft-module#specs].

Reviewer: Why did you remove the reamrk about the integer division? In python 3 `/` represents true (float) division. If you want to do floor division (or integer division) we should use `//`: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19507808/python-3-integer-division

Author: Forgot this detail, changed back.

> Here `isValidSeedReveal` is the function exposed by the [random module][research:random-module] and `impliesMaximalPrevotes` is the function exposed by the [BFT module][research:bft-module#specs].

Reviewer: In other modules we used the notation `random.isValidSeedReveal` and `bft.impliesMaximalPrevotes`. It is also fine like this for me, but you may wanna consider this alternative.

Author: I will just leave it like this.

This function is used to retrieve the reward of a block at a given height.

##### Returns

* `amount`: amount of block reward to be minted.
* `reduction`: an integer indicating whether the reward is reduced. Possible values are `REWARD_NO_REDUCTION`, `REWARD_REDUCTION_SEED_REVEAL`, `REWARD_REDUCTION_MAX_PREVOTES`.

##### Execution

```python

> getBlockReward(blockHeader: BlockHeader) -> tuple[uint64, uint32]:

Author: Added.

#### After Block Execution

After a block `b` is executed, the `mint` function exposed by the [Token module][token-module] to assign the reward to the block generator as:

```python

> (blockReward, reduction) = getBlockReward(b.header)

Author: Yeah, we need the parenthesis because this is a tuple unpacking.

mint(b.header.generatorAddress, TOKEN_ID_REWARD, blockReward)

> eventData = {

Author: Now call the `encode` function.

#### After Block Execution

After a block `b` is executed, the `mint` function exposed by the [Token module][token-module] to assign the reward to the block generator as:

```python
(blockReward, reduction) = getBlockReward(b.header)

> mint(b.header.generatorAddress, TOKEN_ID_REWARD, blockReward)

Reviewer 2: Should we maybe only call mint here if the reward is positive?

Author: Good point, I added a check.

eventDataBytes = encode(

> schema = rewardMintedDataSchema,

Reviewer 2: For readability, I would recommend some indentation here. You can even use `autopep8` for having automatic Python formatting.

Author: I think, my editor is not recognizing the code snippet in markdown as python, but I did the indentation manually.

object = {
    "amount": blockReward,
    "reduction": reduction
})

> emitEvent(MODULE_ID_REWARD, TYPE_ID_REWARD_MINTED, eventDataBytes, [b.header.generatorAddress])

Reviewer: check the new API, we don't need to encode before anymore (see PR of 44 as reference)

Author: Super cool API!
